[Music]
hi have you noticed when shopping for
travel tickets you occasionally come
across prices that defy logic or are all
the time for instance you can get to
your destination in one hour by playing
or take a train for seven hours and pay
way more money how are these fairs fair
and how would you fare with these fares
I think it's fair to say that there's a
bigger question about unfair fares how
do these passenger rail companies stay
in business if air travel is faster and
cheaper
well trains do have their perks the
obvious benefits are catching it right
in the city versus having to fight
traffic all the way to the airport you
can also take as many liquids with you
as your heart desires you don't have to
worry about bad weather delaying your
trip and there's no stress at all if
you're afraid of fly environmentalists
will also say that using clean electric
power is much better than spraying
exhaust fumes across the sky now all
this sounds great and justifiable but
the real explanations behind why train
tickets cost so much have less to do
with comfort and emotions and more about
practicality when you travel by plane it
takes off at a certain Airport and lands
at another these planes need maintenance
and airports are packed with staff no
doubt but the journey itself no matter
how long it is happens up in the air
which needs no physical maintenance
trains however run on tracks duh and to
be able to move on those at high speeds
or even move on them at all the tracks
need to be in good condition this
maintenance includes changing sleepers
adjusting switches tightening any loose
components and keeping straight parts
straight and curved parts curved within
limits there's even the little yet
important job of spraying the ballast
with herbicides so that weeds don't go
through it from time to time sections of
tracks and ballast need to be renewed
while most of this work is now done by
specialized machines the materials and
those machines don't come
ticking care of a small section is
already a lot but think of how many
tracks a national railroad service has
Amtrak for example on 730 miles of its
tracks and rinse an additional 20,000
miles that means they have to pay the
owners for any maintenance costs
expanding the route network and building
new tracks is extremely expensive as
well just one mile costs over a million
bucks the trains themselves come with a
hefty price tag to just one locomotive
traveling from DC to New York will run
you about six and a half million dollars
if you're interested in buying not
nearly as expensive as a plane but still
a lot at eight passenger cars worth four
hundred thousand dollars each and you'll
see that this train cost nearly 10
million buckaroos no one wants to travel
in old cars with broken door handles or
other parts so every now and then they
have to be fixed and eventually replaced
at some point the largest expense
however is not the tracks or the trains
it's the people servicing them now think
about it when you're traveling by plane
depending on its size you'll usually be
accompanied by about five friendly
flight attendants and two pilots they'll
be taking good care of you for an hour
and a half on a flight from LA to San
Francisco of course they get paid for
that time and track workers on the same
route will work for nine hours and get
paid accordingly it gets even more
interesting if you look at a trip from
LA to DC it's been five hours in the air
but two whole days on a train I doubt
for the plane in this case but what
would you choose any long train ride
fans out there let me know in the
comments below
anyway that's a huge difference in pay
hours now multiply all those hours by
the number of people working for rail
companies it's not just the train
attendants but all kinds of jobs that
come together to make your railroad
experience smooth Amtrak has twenty
thousand employees together they service
the 87 thousand passengers that travel
on more than three hundred trains every
day that's about one staff member for
every four passengers
because they're all highly skilled
professionals they expect good money for
their work wouldn't you so while they
spend lots of money on great staff and
vehicle maintenance
how much do passenger train companies
actually make well at sea one of the
most popular routes in the u.s. is the
commute from DC to New York you can get
a ticket for 75 bucks give or take
depending on how far in advance you
booked the trip when third of this price
goes to staff salaries another 12% is
trained car costs maintenance of rails
makes up another 5% but all this stuff
I've talked about so far it's just half
of the ticket price where does the rest
of the money go is it pure profit no
there's more like any company and in
this case a huge one Amtrak needs to pay
someone to run the business so 3 percent
of the ticket price is used to cover
administrative costs even though
everyone knows their name
Amtrak still has to advertise good deals
and new rides
that's another 2% of the cost there are
also settlement fees the company has to
bear yes terrains are an incredibly safe
kind of transportation but accidents
still happen and around 1% of that
ticket cost would go to those who get
affected by them different minor costs
eat another 8% of the ticket value in
the end you can see that the profit for
the company is roughly 35 percent of the
average price for this ride and that's
just on one of the most popular and
profitable routes the more passengers it
gets and the faster and more frequently
it travels the more profitable the route
is but not all of the company's 500
routes bring in big bucks there are
other less bustling destinations that
operate at a loss charging more for a
ride in one of the busy routes doesn't
help compensate for that difference
either
so despite those fares that seem crazy
expensive Amtrak has operational losses
every year things are easier for
railroads in Europe because they have
smaller territories to cover and connect
with tracks and much more passengers and
trains traveling on those lines the same
is true for Japan
the whole country is about the size of
California and they keep building
high-speed networks that are a
profitable business now if your regular
train fare still seems overpriced to you
then you might feel a little better
after hearing about a few of the most
expensive rides in the world the
Maharajah's Express luxury train India
well the name says it all this luxury
train travels across Northwest and
Central India and goes through most of
the major tourist spots of the country
it consists of 23 cars and is basically
a temporary palace for eighty-eight
guests and for those who somehow get
bored of the gorgeous views on the
outside there's an LCD TV and Wi-Fi in
every cabin if you feel like
experiencing the life of a Maharaja
that's an Indian prince then be prepared
to pay a princely sum of $3,800 per
person for a ride that lasts four days
and three nights the Golden Eagle
trans-siberian Express Russia this ride
fit for Russian Czars starts in Moscow
and goes all the way across the world's
largest country to the eastern city of
Vladivostok in 15 days and 14 nights
passengers can choose between imperial
suites and gold and silver class cabins
Suites have king-size beds a vanity and
a private shower cabins that are a bit
less luxurious still have air
conditioning a wardrobe music and videos
to keep guests entertained
even though prices start at roughly
$13,000 for the entire ride trips must
be booked well in advance Royal Scotsman
the UK unless you're friends with the
royal family and get personal invites to
their festive receptions you'll
definitely be amazed by a ride with the
Royal Scotsman the shortest possible
tour lasts three days and costs start at
around three thousand dollars per
passenger there are just 16 double
cabins in the sleeping cars and four
single ones making the entire train a
temporary luxury home for 36 guests
there's a private bathroom proper
wardrobe and vanity and of course super
comfortable beds in each of the cabins
the
servation car with an open deck is an
added bonus to enjoy the scenery in
style so do these fares seem fair to you
hey if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life